# Heart-Disease-Prediction
# Why heart disease prediction??
Now a days, heart disease is a most common factor in human’s life after a certain age. As of 2016, according to WHO 17.9 million people which contributes 32% of total world deaths die due to heart disease. And the most surprising case is, 85% of the mentioned death was due Heart Attack and Stroke. At the turn of the century, cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) became the leading cause of mortality in India. This epidemiological transition is largely because of the increase in the prevalence of CVDs and CVD risk factors in India. In 2016, the estimated prevalence of CVDs in India was estimated to be 54.5 million. One in 4 deaths in India are now because of CVDs with ischemic heart disease and stroke responsible for >80% of this burden. These diseases tend to affect patients in the most productive years of their lives and result in catastrophic social and economic consequences.
An abnormal pumping of blood is observed in each patient who is suffering from heart disease. Though there are several factors that are supposed to cause heart disease, but there are some severer changeable factors that are strongly correlated with heart disease. Those are: smoking, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, physical inactivity, alcohol, obesity, poor diet etc. Apart from these, age, sex, family history etc... are considered as unchangeable factors.

# Problem Description
Now a days, massive amount of data is continuously generated in hospital, health clinic, diagnostic centers, various surveys, and modern healthcare related IoT devices. We can extract essential information through these data which is very helpful to predict future heart disease risks. As computation evolved today much faster and less costly, to achieve this goal using the traditional diagnostic methods are less focused to early predict the heart disease, rather analytical tools like data mining, machine learning and AI are very productive to find data insights, useful underlying patterns, relationships between features and correlated data to further diagnose a patient at early stage.

# Objective
As far as we have seen, Machine Learning and AI such analytical tools are very productive in case of predicting heart disease for a patient. There are several approaches or models we can use for such classification problem like traditional machine learning classifiers, Logistic Regression, K-Nearest Neighbor, Naïve Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest and Support Vector Machine. For better accuracy and less overfitting/underfitting issues some Deep Learning Models are deployed such as Artificial Neural Network, Deep Neural Network, Fuzzy Neural Networks. These Deep Learning models are very accurate but computationally complex. In this paper we are going use several Ensemble Learning approaches to predict heart disease which are more accurate than traditional Machine Learning models and less complex than Neural Networks.
Ensemble Learning methods is a Machine Learning technique that combines several base models in order to produce one optimal predictive model. In this particular issue the problem is solved implementing various type of Ensemble Learning approaches such as Bagging, Boosting, and Stacking which further harness the path to our goal. For this problem, Framingham dataset is chosen.
